Hello. I'll now show you
how you can initialize
a matrix that can tell you
the parts of speech
side of every word.
This matrix will tell
you the probability that
every word belongs to a
certain part of speech.
Let me show you how
you can do this.
As you just saw, the
initialization step is
one of three steps to populate
the auxiliary matrices,
C and D. In the
initialization step,
the first column of
each of our matrices,
C and D is populated.
The first column of C represents
probability of the
transitions from
the start states
by in the graph to
the first tag ti and word W1,
meaning we're trying to go
from tag 1 to the word W1.
This is shown here
for a model with
three hidden states for
the sake of clarity.
So the first column entries,
ci,1 are the products of the
transition probabilities
of the initial states and
the respective emission
probabilities.
As your initial probabilities
are contained in
the first row of the
transition matrix a,
this is the same as a1,i
times the corresponding
emission probability b.
B and C index function
simply returns
the column index and the matrix B
for the given word here, W1.
In the D matrix,
you store the labels
that represent
the different states
you're traversing when
finding the most likely
sequence of parts of
speech tags for the
given sequence of words,
W1 all the way to Wk.
In the first column, you simply
set all entries to zero,
as there are no
proceeding parts of
speech tags we have traversed.
That's it for step one.
You now know how to
initialize your matrices.
In the next video, you're
going to learn how to
continue populating
your matrices,
and you can use that to decode
the parts of speech of
a certain sentence.
You will learn about
the Viterbi algorithm,
which you can use
for part of speech
tagging and also
speech recognition.